All right, guys.
So we're going to start on our project.
We're going to create our files and add the HTML for at least the nav bar and hopefully style it in
this video, we're also going to add the fab icon to the tab.
So in your in the previous lecture, you should have a zip file called Image Resources.
And what you're going to want to do is create a folder.
I called my news grid, I created an IMG folder and I put all of the images in here.
So as far as images, we have the logo, IMG, which is the main logo.
We have a logo light PNG for the footer.
I also include the PSD, which is the Photoshop file in case you guys wanted that.
And then there's an icon, PNG, which is just the icon and we're going to use this to create a fava
icon.
And then we have the showcase, our featured JPEG, which is the featured article and the showcase area,
and then a folder called Articles with all the other images.
So once you get those, let's go ahead and let's create our files.
So we're going to create index dot HTML, we're going to have an about HTML and we're going to have
an article HTML which will represent a single article.
And then let's create a folder called CSS.
Inside CSS, we'll have a style CSS and we'll have a mobile CSS OC and we can close all of this except
for index HTML.
And let's open up style CSS.
So let's add in our boilerplate here.
And for the title, I'm just going to say News Grid and let's say latest news
and let's link our style sheets.
So we'll say link and let's do CSS slash style CSS and then under that we want our mobile CSS.
So we'll copy that down.
Let's change this to mobile CSS.
However, we only want this to show if the screen is 768 or less.
So we're going to add a media attribute and say screen and max width 768 pixels.
Now we're also using font.
Awesome.
So let's head over to font awesome dotcom and let's say start using free and then we're going to grab
this link and put it right above the style CSS.
All right, so let's take care of the fab icon.
Now, what I usually do is I use a service called Dynamic Drive.
I've used this literally for about eight or nine years.
So if you search for dynamic drive, fab icon, you'll get this link here.
It's actually tools dot dynamic dot drive, dot com slash fab icon.
And what happens here is you can upload an image.
So we're going to grab the icon PNG and then click create icon and it will generate a fab icon dot ISO
file or icon file.
So we want to download that and let's go ahead and grab that.
I already have one here, but I'm going to grab that and copy it and then let's bring it over to our
route folder.
Don't put it in the image folder, put it in the route so we'll paste that in.
Good.
And then all we have to do is add this little snippet here, this link to the fab icon, and we'll place
that right here.
And I'm just going to remove the slash because it will give us some issues.
If we just open it with the file system, it won't display.
So let's remove that and that's it.
Let's save.
Let's open with live server.
And if you don't see the fab icon here, you need to just clear your cache.
Or at least I do, because I've already done this.
So I'm going to I'm on a mac so I'm going to do a command shift.
Ah, and it will reload if you're on windows.
I believe it's shift f five and now you can see the fab icon displays in the tab.
So it's as easy as that.
So now let's start to add some markup.
First thing is the nav bar.
So we're going to have a nav with the ID of Main NAV and let's put a container in here to contain everything
to the max width that we're going to set and then we're going to have our logo.
So image with the class of logo, it's going to go to image slash logo.
PMG And for the alt, I'll just say news grid.
And then under that we want our social media icons and this is going to be a grid.
I'm going to set this to grid normally.
I'd probably use Flex for this, but I want I really want to focus on the grid system here.
So each one of these will be grid items.
All right.
So let's create actually, let's give this div a class of social and then we're going to have a link
with we'll do a link and we'll just set this to go to Facebook.
Obviously, this would be their Facebook page, but this is a fictional website.
And then inside here, we want to put the we'll put an eye tag with the class of F a and it's actually
going to be F a B, the social media icons have a class of F, a B instead of face.
And then this will be F a Facebook.
Like that.
And we're going to also add a class of F, a dash to X, which will make it larger.
And then since this is an external website, let's add target equals underscore blank, which will open
it in a new tab.
All right, so let's take this and let's copy this down three more times and we're going to do Twitter.
Let's change this to Twitter, the icon, and then this.
I'm going to do a command control DX so that I can choose the next iteration of Facebook.
And I'm going to change this to Instagram and then I'll select this one Control DX and then let's do
YouTube.
All right, so if I save this, we should see this.
And don't worry, we'll make this look better.
The last thing we need in this container is going to be our links.
So.
Or our list with the links.
So let's do a ul ly say a I'm actually going to give this a class of current because I want the current
page to be highlighted.
So let's say class current, it's going to go to index dot HTML and let's say home, we'll copy this
down and let's say about change this to about HTML and let's clear this class.
All right.
So it's going to look absolutely horrible for now.
In the next video, we're going to start to add some of our core styles and then we'll style the nav
bar.